The first thing I noted about this project is that the traits are not weighed evenly. 15 traits are represented as boolean integers while number of legs was an int. In any of the distance metrics, this causes number of legs to be a heavily deciding factor as any other trait will add 1 to the total sum while legs (considering the comparison of a scorpion with a legless fish) can add up to 64 before taking the square root. To adjust for this discrepency, I saved the greatest number of legs of any animal while loading all of the data and, in each distance metric, divided the number of legs by this number. In doing so, the greatest number of legs is set to 1 while the fewest remains at 0. In this way, number of legs has been scaled so that at most it will represent the same magnitude as any of the other boolean traits.

Between the metrics, I found that using the minumum distance between members to represent the distance between sets constricts set growth and causes very conservative expansion. Average, on the other hand, allows for set flexibility and maintains a more coherent set as it expands and is diversified. The maximum distance metric promotes diversity within sets which causes sets to branch out early and puts more emphasis on outliers within sets.

In the algorithm, minumum and maximum distance metrics produced similar clusters for sets of clusters under roughly 20. The maximum metric's propensity for combining outliers is most easily seen when sets of 3-6 members begin merging with one another and different classes of animals are combined. The average metric gave the most overall coherent sets as it reduced the number of outliers by taking into account the micro-diversity within sets.

Across the distance metrics, a greater number of clusters will produce more coherent sets, and as the number of clusters is reduced it is easy to see where massive mergings take place. Small groups of unique animals (such as mollusks or flightless birds) are often merged together fairly early, but a lower and lower number of sets eventually merges massive classes together (mammals with fish, or birds with insects and mollusks).


